# Control-modelling-for-suspension-system (Done as part of a course project)

This is an implementation aimed at modelling a controller for a suspension system. The MATLAB code can be found in controlsystemmodelling.m

**ABSTRACT**<br />
Trains are one of the most widely used means of transport especially in a huge country such as India. They provide cheap means of transport and facilitate long distance travel. With increased demands to reduce the duration of travel, trains now travel at a very high speed. The various vibrations and shocks from the tracks can cause discomfort, fatigue, and irritation among passengers. As far as the railways are concerned, these vibrations decrease the durability of the train bogeys, which increases maintenance costs and reduces its performance. To alleviate this problem, we make use of an active suspension system with an electrohydraulic actuator which applies a specified force to control the motion of the train body. The control strategy used to control the actuators is a Linear Quadratic Regulator (LQR) feedback controller. The LQR controller designed is active and enables the suspension system to dynamically change based on operating conditions. This enables travel without compromising on the rail handling ability and ride comfort. MATLAB will be used to develop and analyze the state-space model for both the passive and active systems and a Simulink will be used to create block diagrams and simulate the systems. Besides the development of the suspension system, we would also investigate the parameters of the suspension system and evaluate both the passive and active suspension system through tests and analyze the results
